# Mesh-based Human (XCAT) Phantom for Simulation


## Description
Simulation studies have been essential for advancing various developments in imaging, dosimetry, and radiation therapy. 

The Geant4 application for tomographic emission (GATE) remains one of the most commonly used simulation toolkits in this context [GATE source page] (http://www.opengatecollaboration.org) [^1,2].

GATE supports the simulation of Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT), X-ray Computed Tomography (CT), optical, and Compton camera imaging, radiation therapy, and dosimetry in the same environment [^2]. 

Most of the simulation software allows building system and phantom geometries based on the combination of simple idealized volumes. However, these volumes are limited to model accurately complex geometries. Recent GATE releases (version 8 and 9) alleviate these limitations by allowing the users to import triangulated surface meshes as stereo-lithography (STL) file format, thus enabling improved accuracy of simulation of system geometries.

Taking advantage of such capability, we developed a simplified STL-based version of the XCAT digitial anthropomorphic phantom providing an advanced anatomical description of the human body for simulation purposes.

In agreement with the original developer team of the XCAT phantom, we distribute below free of charge three versions of this phantom with different length (Head only, Head-Torso-Abdominal only, and Whole Body). 

We provide below a brief description of the phantoms in GATE. It is understandable that the phantom can be used in any software capable of importing STL files.

We refered readers interested on the generation, usage, and validation of this phantom in the context of brain SPECT to the following publications.

--> Note, the phantom can be used as well in Geant4 or any other software enabling importation of such STL files.

- Add references

### STL-based phantoms

The 3 phantom versions consist of the following structures,

- Head Only:
  Brain, part of the Skeleton, and Air Cavity. Note, the Air Cavity volume was generated by merging part of the throat, nasal and oral cavities, and trachea.
- Head-Torso-Abdominal Only:
  Brain, part of the Skeleton, Liver, Lungs, and Bronchi Tree. 
- Whole Body
  Brain, Skeleton, Liver, Lungs, and Bronchi Tree.

Describe 3 phantoms in tables (triangles, plus volume, and size of each parts).

### Voxelized version of the STL-based phantoms
For attenuation correction or source definition.
Describe 


## Usage in GATE
How to use in GATE STL and Voxelized?
- Command Lines in GATE



## Citation of the following articles if used

## Download


[^1]: Jan et al., 2004.
[^2]: Sarrut et al., 2014.

